Hello everyone and welcome back.
We're going to go through the enormous amount of file types not one by one.
By the way which is going to have a look at what they are how you would go about using them.
So we get a better understanding because there are many many file types.
You can pick from.
The first thing to consider and this is not only with fahd's house but with a lot of things in life
is what is your outputs.
What's the end goal what are you trying to achieve.
So think of your output first that filters back to everything else whether what quality level you're
going for what file type that you're going to outputs et cetera et cetera.
Where is your image going to end up.
Is it going to end up in a game in which case you want to insert some formats.
Is it going to end up on the Web where you might choose others imprint's is it going to be a box art
or for a manual.
These are all questions you need to ask yourself.
And in some cases some file types are more appropriate than others.
So let's have a look at types of images.
There are raw images now.
These are images that are uncompressed For example data sent straight from a camera sensor.
Now in general this is input data.
If you were to go out and take some photos for Textus for instance you may come back with raw.
Now they need to be processed.
They're um they're uncompressed and they're UN processed so they're not in any particular format at
the moment.
You may see a dot raw or a dot something that the camera produces.
And unless your computer knows how to understand that you won't be able to do anything further with
it.
Now there is a type called uncompressed And it's also lossless.
You may have heard of bitmap BNP tiff t.j. these are the common three that I've come across in my time
working with graphics.
Now these are very large in size because they are uncompressed.
But the great thing about them is they are lossless now in days gone by when processor time was expensive
and it's not that much anymore.
We are having something uncompressed meant that it could be accessed quickly it wouldn't have to be
decompressed in order to use it in.
Today that's not the case.
Storage is more of a premium than the processing time.
So then we have our compressed files and there are two types.
There is Lossie.
In which case we're looking at things like Jay Pake.
Now the issue with using jpa is is every time you save a file or make an edit you're potentially losing
data.
Now there is a caveat here and that's the fact that I think a couple of years ago 2014 the jpa Standard
included a loss less format as well.
However in general Jay Pake is a destructive process by using it you're likely to lose information.
At worst you'll make a really sharp image slightly fuzzy.
And if you carry on saving it has a J peg.
Each time you do that you are going to eventually rot your image and then there's the lossless types.
We've already explored these in brief we've used them both PRNG and Giff now Giff is mainly used for
animation but it is kind of a compressed format in the way that it's an indexed format.
Now an indexed format means that there are 256 different combinations of colour you can have at any
one time and that's per frame.
So on an animation those can change and it has transparency.
Now if you use the transparency it takes up one of those 256 particular colours and it's either on or
off.
It's not that gradual fade for you would have elsewhere ampie in G was developed as the successor to
gear.
Unfortunately there's no animation when it comes to p and Gs.
Now I've mentioned transparency here the alpha channel We've got red green blue channels and we've also
got that fourth channel the Alpher channel now using a j peg rules that out completely.
And now there are some instances where you may choose to use a lossless uncompressed format but in general
PRNG with game development is the way to go.
Now of course we can't talk about fart heights without talking about program specific files.
We've got the FCF format.
This is gimp's own format game engines of most of programs unknot and understand this file type.
So you're going to have to do some sort of export process to get your work to that final place and PSA
is something you'll see a lot that's a Photoshop document.
Again that's proprietary it's part of the Adobe Photoshop suite.
Now when it comes to this some other programs can understand the piasta Including gimp So there is a
benefit in a pierced.
Far though.
Altimetry we're talking about not the construction files themselves.
Here we are talking about the output What's he going to give to the final program printer or whatever
you're going for.
Now you can convert from one image type to another.
Why would you want to do that.
Well creating all of your images as pinches will make your project consistent and it will also save
space without losing quality because a P N G is a lossless compressed format.
So if you've got a series of Tiff's perhaps you've got a scanner and you've scanned something in and
it's saved it is a tiff or a bit map or even a j peg by changing it to appear in G.
You're not gonna save space necessarily but you're certainly going to make your project consistent and
stop the degradation of your image.
So I would in general avoid receiving a J pay if you've gone out and you've taken a picture with your
smart phone or a lot of cameras.
They will save a j peg.
Now once you've got that in to give and you start going ahead and editing the image each time you save
you potentially losing more and more information and it's changing at that point before you do any editing.
I would suggest changing it to a PRNG So you're in a lossless state so converting a j peg to a pin G
is great if you need to edit that image.
If you are having issues with PRNG sometimes you may be in a position where the target program is not
supporting that.
And that's the main one but I would change if your target destination needs it in another format.
Now I've only ever come across this once and that was working with the cry engine.
I believe they needed t A's in order to convert it into the game engine itself so that's the only time
I've ever come across the acceptance of pages being nope not going to accept that.
So do bear in mind saving as a is pretty universal and it comes with most of the benefits of saving
space not losing data.
And your project consistency.
Okay so that's it.
When it comes to this theory session just a reminder here never to remove your source files so when
you've gone ahead and created a multi layered image using something like gimp you don't want to just
bin that you don't wanna convert to export is a pian G and delete the original.
That would really really muck up your workflow later on.
If you need to go back and edit some much like we've done when it comes to making the animated gifts
when you've had to compress those layer groups or rather flatten them so they are just one layer rather
than multiple layers within.
I would do the same when it comes to this.
I'd always keep my raw data so that I can go back at any time and do tweaks that as you go through the
process you'll get better at making sure that you don't write these things.
It's very easy.
Remember to always go ahead and save as create the new file and then start working on it rather than
going the other way around and making all this work on it potentially saving as you go and then going
Whoops I've overwritten the original I didn't want to do that.
Of course I always have a backup as well.
I cannot stress that enough and I can guarantee you when you're working with an image or make a mistake
one day and you'll wish you had a previous version of a file so you can have a version backup that is
even better.
As I said That's it for now on this theory and I will see you all in the next lecture.